THE PROJECT

Students must create a news website for a fictitious news organization or platform, in groups of 4 to 6. You need to decide on topics, an audience, slant, perspective and rubrics. (Examples of various news groups will be shown in contrast to one another in terms of political bias). Each member of the group must have a specific responsibility within the group : language editor, content editor, web design, fact checker, video editor.

Where will you get this news? Students will create credible or fake news on the subject of their choice: general news, sport, technology, etc. You can create a specialized or general news website as well as a website modeled on late night political comedy shows. (The Late Show, The Daily Show, etc)

Students will pitch their websites during the last class.

NEWS ROUNDUP: (Homework mandatory) Important!

In every class, students are expected as homework to have kept up on the current events of the previous week, and may be called upon randomly to give a short 2 to 3 minute news 'round-up' to the class to encourage an interest in following the news as well as to help hone their oratory skills. This will count towards their participation grade. Dynamic debate in class is to be encouraged regarding student’s points of view of current events.

IN CLASS WRITING ASSIGNMENTS: each student is responsible for writing two articles: (These will be done on paper in classes 6 and 8)

- Class 6: The Hard News Article: 200-word news article, following specific instructions given in class.

Class 8: The Editorial: 150-word editorial (opinion piece) article, following specific instructions given in class. The Editorials should have a clear opinion and slant as seen in the content of various media outlets, and can play on the polarized nature of politics in the media especially in this election season in the United States.

The typed, corrected articles must be posted on your news website.

These writing assignments can be used as a foundation for articles for their news websites later.

Each student must appear in a news video related to their group’s website/ news outlet. This can mean one longer video per group (thus a group grade) or individual videos. Students must speak for approximately 2 minutes. It can be an interview between each other or other people, a report, a debate, etc. Don't hesitate to find creative solutions for these videos. Political satire and humour can play a big role.

The pitch must be presented during the last class. Each student must speak and the presentation should last about 15 minutes including the viewing of the news video(s). Students are selling their paper, news outlet, or even a podcast to a group of investors and should identify their audience, the hole they are filling in the market and the quality of their research. Each student should briefly explain his or her articles and their relevance to the site. The videos should be presented and shown and finally as a conclusion students should state their plans for the future of the site should investors invest. This should be a fun exercise a bit along the lines of ‘Shark Tank’ with other students chosen to act as investors and judges.

KEY LEARNING OBJECTIVES

The first key to the course’s success lies in encouraging the students in class to present current events, helping them find confidence in speaking to an audience in English.

The second key element will be team building in the creation, as a group, of their news websites. A good deal of latitude can be given in the format and creativity of their platforms. Insist that all work and discussion regarding the collaborative work in class be conducted in English!

By the end of this course, students will have a deeper understanding of the media landscape and develop stronger critical skills to navigate a complex media ecosystem. A key goal of the course is to increase their daily consumption of reliable news in English, enhancing both their language proficiency and vocabulary beyond the classroom. Additionally, the course aims to foster greater engagement with current events and the broader world hopefully by using alternative and more credible news sources than TicToc and Facebook.

GRADING

Hard News Article: 20%
Editorial: 20%
News Website 35%
In Class Participation (Oral News ‘Roundup’) 25%
